Documenting metrics messages in Beats logs (#36163)
elastic/beats: libbeat/docs/metrics-in-logs.asciidoc

> Every 30 seconds (by default), Beats collect a _snapshot_ of metrics about itself. From this snapshot, Beat computes a _delta snapshot_; this delta snapshot contains any metrics that have _changed_ since the last snapshot. Note that the values of the metrics are the values when the snapshot is taken, **NOT** the _difference_ in values from the last snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every 30 seconds (by default), {beatname_uc} collects a _snapshot_ of metrics about itself. From this snapshot, {beatname_uc} computes a _delta snapshot_; this delta snapshot contains any metrics that have _changed_ since the last snapshot. Note that the values of the metrics are the values when the snapshot is taken, _NOT_ the _difference_ in values from the last snapshot.
```

> If this delta snapshot contains _any_ metrics (indicating that at least one metric changed since the last snapshot), this delta snapshot is serialized as JSON and emitted in the Beat's logs at the `INFO` log level. Here is an example of such a log entry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this delta snapshot contains _any_ metrics (indicating that at least one metric changed since the last snapshot), this delta snapshot is serialized as JSON and emitted in {beatname_uc}'s logs at the `INFO` log level. Here is an example of such a log entry:
```

----

[discrete]
== Details

Focussing on the `.monitoring.metrics` field, it's value is:

[source,json]
----

> {"beat":{"cgroup":{"memory":{"mem":{"usage":{"bytes":0}}}},"cpu":{"system":{"ticks":692690,"time":{"ms":60}},"total":{"ticks":3167250,"time":{"ms":150},"value":3167250},"user":{"ticks":2474560,"time":{"ms":90}}},"handles":{"limit":{"hard":1048576,"soft":1048576},"open":32},"info":{"ephemeral_id":"2bab8688-34c0-4522-80af-db86948d547d","uptime":{"ms":617670096},"version":"8.6.2"},"memstats":{"gc_next":57189272,"memory_alloc":43589824,"memory_total":275281335792,"rss":183574528},"runtime":{"goroutines":212}},"filebeat":{"events":{"active":5,"added":52,"done":49},"harvester":{"open_files":6,"running":6,"started":1}},"libbeat":{"config":{"module":{"running":15}},"output":{"events":{"acked":48,"active":0,"batches":6,"total":48},"read":{"bytes":210},"write":{"bytes":26923}},"pipeline":{"clients":15,"events":{"active":5,"filtered":1,"published":51,"total":52},"queue":{"acked":48}}},"registrar":{"states":{"current":14,"update":49},"writes":{"success":6,"total":6}},"system":{"load":{"1":0.91,"15":0.37,"5":0.4,"norm":{"1":0.1138,"15":0.0463,"5":0.05}}}}

Reviewer 2: Can we format this as multi-line JSON to make it easier to see the fields, it'll be big, but much more readable.

Example piping this through jq:

```json
{
  "beat": {
    "cgroup": {
      "memory": {
        "mem": {
          "usage": {
            "bytes": 0
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "cpu": {
      "system": {
        "ticks": 692690,
        "time": {
          "ms": 60
        }
      },
      "total": {
        "ticks": 3167250,
        "time": {
          "ms": 150
        },
        "value": 3167250
      },
      "user": {
        "ticks": 2474560,
        "time": {
          "ms": 90
        }
      }
    },
    "handles": {
      "limit": {
        "hard": 1048576,
        "soft": 1048576
      },
      "open": 32
    },
    "info": {
      "ephemeral_id": "2bab8688-34c0-4522-80af-db86948d547d",
      "uptime": {
        "ms": 617670096
      },
      "version": "8.6.2"
    },
    "memstats": {
      "gc_next": 57189272,
      "memory_alloc": 43589824,
      "memory_total": 275281335792,
      "rss": 183574528
    },
    "runtime": {
      "goroutines": 212
    }
  },
  "filebeat": {
    "events": {
      "active": 5,
      "added": 52,
      "done": 49
    },
    "harvester": {
      "open_files": 6,
      "running": 6,
      "started": 1
    }
  },
  "libbeat": {
    "config": {
      "module": {
        "running": 15
      }
    },
    "output": {
      "events": {
        "acked": 48,
        "active": 0,
        "batches": 6,
        "total": 48
      },
      "read": {
        "bytes": 210
      },
      "write": {
        "bytes": 26923
      }
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "clients": 15,
      "events": {
        "active": 5,
        "filtered": 1,
        "published": 51,
        "total": 52
      },
      "queue": {
        "acked": 48
      }
    }
  },
  "registrar": {
    "states": {
      "current": 14,
      "update": 49
    },
    "writes": {
      "success": 6,
      "total": 6
    }
  },
  "system": {
    "load": {
      "1": 0.91,
      "15": 0.37,
      "5": 0.4,
      "norm": {
        "1": 0.1138,
        "15": 0.0463,
        "5": 0.05
      }
    }
  }
}
```

----

> The following tables attempt to explain the meaning of salient fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting Beats issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables explain the meaning of salient fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting {beatname_uc} issues.
```

> The following tables attempt to explain the meaning of salient fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting Beats issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables explain the meaning of salient fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting Beats issues.
```

> The following tables attempt to explain the meaning of salient fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting Beats issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following tables attempt to explain the meaning of the most important fields under `.monitoring.metrics` and also provide hints that might be helpful in troubleshooting Beats issues.
```

Salient is more concise, but it's a less common word english as a second language speakers might have to look up.

[cols="1,1,2,2"]
|===
| Field path (relative to `.monitoring.metrics`) | Type    | Meaning                              | Troubleshooting hints

| `.beat`                | Object | Information that is common to all Beats, e.g. version, goroutines, file handles, CPU, memory |
| `.libbeat`             | Object | Information about the publisher pipeline and output, also common to all Beats |
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]

> | `.filebeat`            | Object | Information specific to Filebeat, e.g. harvester, events |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.filebeat`            | Object | Information specific to {filebeat}, e.g. harvester, events |
```
Not super critical but we use a variable for each Beat name.

> | `.filebeat`            | Object | Information specific to Filebeat, e.g. harvester, events |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.filebeat`            | Object | Information specific to {filebeat}, e.g. harvester, events |
```

endif::[]
|===

[cols="1,1,2,2"]
|===
| Field path (relative to `.monitoring.metrics.beat`) | Type    | Meaning                              | Troubleshooting hints

| `.runtime.goroutines` | Integer | Number of goroutines running | If this number grows over time, it indicates a goroutine leak
|===

[cols="1,1,2,2"]
|===
| Field path (relative to `.monitoring.metrics.libbeat`) | Type    | Meaning                              | Troubleshooting hints

> | `.pipeline.events.active` | Integer | Number of events currently in the libbeat publisher pipeline. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the Beat (e.g. Filebeat) is producing events faster than the output can consume. Consider increasing the number of output workers (if this setting is supported by the output; Elasticsearch and Logstash outputs support this setting). If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.pipeline.events.active` | Integer | Number of events currently in the libbeat publisher pipeline. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the Beat (e.g. {filebeat}) is producing events faster than the output can consume them. Consider increasing the number of output workers (if this setting is supported by the output; {es} and {ls} outputs support this setting). If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.
```

> | `.pipeline.events.active` | Integer | Number of events currently in the libbeat publisher pipeline. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the Beat (e.g. Filebeat) is producing events faster than the output can consume. Consider increasing the number of output workers (if this setting is supported by the output; Elasticsearch and Logstash outputs support this setting). If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.pipeline.events.active` | Integer | Number of events currently in the libbeat publisher pipeline. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the Beat (e.g. {filebeat}) is producing events faster than the output can consume. Consider increasing the number of output workers (if this setting is supported by the output; Elasticsearch and Logstash outputs support this setting). If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.
```

> | `.pipeline.events.active` | Integer | Number of events currently in the libbeat publisher pipeline. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the Beat (e.g. Filebeat) is producing events faster than the output can consume. Consider increasing the number of output workers (if this setting is supported by the output; Elasticsearch and Logstash outputs support this setting). If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.

Reviewer 2: We should document that this includes events currently being processed and the queue, so it can end up slightly higher than the queue size.

Author: Sorry, but I didn't follow.  Did you mean: 

> The pipeline includes events currently being processed and events in the queue, so it can end up slightly higher than the queue size?

If so, then the following sentence probably doesn't make sense:

> If this number reaches the maximum queue size (`queue.mem.events` for the in-memory queue), it may indicate backpressure on the Beat, implying that the Beat may need to stop ingesting more events from the source.

Reviewer 3: It still mostly makes sense -- there can be at most one extra (unqueued) active event per pipeline client (=  input worker), and since typical queue size is in the 1000s and typical client count is in the single digits, an active count that hits the queue size is definitely experiencing back pressure.

Author: Thanks for the explanation, @faec.  Clarified in 4e80569f90.

Reviewer 2: Yes thanks Fae. You will sometimes see numbers like 4099 with a queue size of 4096 which can seem like a bug but isn't.

> | `.output.events.total` | Integer | Number of events currently being processed by the output. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the output destination (e.g. Logstash pipeline or Elasticsearch cluster) is not being able to keep up with accepting events at the same or faster rate than what the Beat is sending to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.output.events.total` | Integer | Number of events currently being processed by the output. | If this number grows over time, it may indicate that the output destination (e.g. {ls} pipeline or {es} cluster) is not able to accept events at the same or faster rate than what the Beat is sending to it.
```

| `.output.events.acked` | Integer | Number of events acknowledged by the output destination. | Generally, we want this number to be the same as `.output.events.total` as this indicates that the output destination has reliably received all the events sent to it.

> | `.output.events.failed` | Integer | Number of events that the Beat tried to send to the output destination but it failed to receive them. | Generally, we want this field to be absent or its value to be 0. When the value is greater than zero, it's useful to check the Beat's logs right before this log entry's `@timestamp` to see if there are any connectivity issues with the output destination. Note that failed events are not lost or dropped; they will be sent back to the publisher pipeline for retrying later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.output.events.failed` | Integer | Number of events that the Beat tried to send to the output destination, but the destination failed to receive them. | Generally, we want this field to be absent or its value to be zero. When the value is greater than zero, it's useful to check the Beat's logs right before this log entry's `@timestamp` to see if there are any connectivity issues with the output destination. Note that failed events are not lost or dropped; they will be sent back to the publisher pipeline for retrying later.
```
